# On the Road (Group A, optional)

## Foreword

At this point, the first group of teens had had their first Session 0. I was planning to
have that be it for session 0 for them since they had met all session 0 roleplaying
objectives but we aren't scheduled to have the second group of teens start theirs for
another day or two, and there was a great deal of clamoring for MOAR D&D!  So, we can have
some "On the road to..." segments, perhaps not unlike Bing Crosby and Bob Hope. ...with
any luck.

In this segment of the story, the adventurers are on their way to the dam, where they will
meet up with Group B. But as we are filling time, we will add in some level-2 appropriate
Homeric Odyssey events to waylay them a bit. First of all, it seemed fun to introduce them
to the idea of a skill challenge, which we haven't done for a long time. I'm thinking here
that close to the dam, the road descends off the valley edge down to the valley floor,
dipping below the level of the nascent lake. The lake has found a narrow cut where it can
escape its bounds and flood down the road. So, with no way to cross and what promises to
be an exciting ride down, perhaps we can tempt them with a flume ride. (Skill challenge!)
Perhaps some large hungry birds will have been flume fishing and spot a prize snack, too.
It is always good to be kind to birds. We will see if the party manages to fillet them or
feed them.

But, before that, if one batch of slavers is good, maybe a bigger batch of slavers is
better? They can tussle over who will be slaves and who will be slavers. In either case,
it seems their destiny to arrive at the dam at just the right time will be assured!

How convenient!


## The Narrow Road

>_The way downsteam from the cave is the remains of the old wagon road which traversed
this side of the valley where the sides begin their ascent to the mountain peaks. There
remains only a scant few feet between the road and the lakeshore in many places, with
little shelter for travelers. The lake is a murky mess of trees, more trees, fallen trees,
sticks and logs of every description, fence posts, bushes, mats of vegetation, broken
houses, dead yaks and all matter of scavengers and gasping fish. Through some too familiar
law of fantasy universes, the lake, now spanning most of the valley, now houses
innumerable frogs, some larger than you, whereas a few days ago there was naught but a
river and what it could contain.  Where do they all come from? Some primordial plane of
fens? With all the rot and decay it doesn't look like this will be a shining example of a
pure mountain lake for some years to come. The smell is quite developed.  The sound of
giant frogs and the whine of mosquitos fills the air. Winter will be here in a few months,
but for now, they rule the lake._

>_As you plod along, the tall valley sides abruptly rise to your left. You can probably 
scale the first fifty feet easily enough, but after that it becomes steep and rocky enough
that climbing gear will probably be needed. The area immediately between you and the lake
to the right is a dense thicket of small **Allufurt**, trees, a unusual palm variety found
only in the **Rodoehtian** Plateau. They are super fluffy and to be found in a variety of
pastel colors. They used to carpet the valley from edge to edge, but most now stand soggy
and ruined in the murky waters. Beyond, clumps of crushed allufurt, rotting vegetation and
floating logs slowly swirl and eddy out in the lake._

>_Ahead you spot a rockfall blocking the road._ 

Many of the rocks in the fall look recently fractured and some a bit scorched.

___
### Slavers 

If the players approach the rockfall -- where else would they go? -- a tall hobgoblin in
armor appears atop the rockfall. He is holding a javelin and has several more on his back.
Behind them, the four more hobgoblins appear on the road, having recently been hiding in
the trees. They may be noticed with a 18 perception roll.

Assuming the players don't notice the assistant slavers before approaching the rockfall --
they are well hidden DC 18 to spot:

>_As you approach the rockfall, a tall figure in armor appears at the top of the mound. He
plants his spear in the stones at his feet and calls to the party in common, "Aha! More
helpers for the plantings! Thank you for coming! Stay there, and my men will assist you
with your gear"  A broad grin appears on his face, revealing two large pointy canines, as
he gestures behind you._

The party will see four men (hobgoblins) behind them. Two carry nets and tridents. Two
have longsword and shield.

>**Leader**: (hobgoblin, 100xp, 3x javelin, range 30')   
>**slavers with nets**: (hobgoblin x2, 100 xp each, net and spear, reach+sentinel)   
>**slavers with bags**: (hobgoblin x2, 100 xp each, longsword and bag)     

The main threat is the slavers from the rear, especially those with nets and spears. The
net men will try to ensnare the party members. Any party member that remains snared for a
full round will cause the bag men to try to scoop them up in a burlap sack using a
grappling attack. If the net is in use the net men will attempt to stab wouldbe rescuers
with their spear. Meanwhile, the leader will attempt to hurl javelins (+1d6 backstab
damage) at the party from the rear.  If the players charge the assistants, they can put
enough distance between themselves and the leader that his throws are long range, and
considerably less devastating.
___

If the party is killed or captured, they will be hauled with a group of 4 other slaves
down the road to the next stage.

If the slavers are killed (they really have nowhere to run) then the party will find four
slaves emerging from hiding among the small allufurt trees by the side of the road. The
slavers captured them the day before as they fled the flood.

___


### Flume challenge
>_The road continues down valley along the lake. Occasionally some very sad looking fish
can be seen gulping air from the murk, amidst clumps of drowned vegetation from the newly
formed lake. To the left, the sides of the glacially carved U-shaped valley rise steeply
towards the impossible heights of the Rodoehtian Range of mountains. It is said they
pierce the sky._

>_After a few miles, the obstruction that blocked the Rodoehtian river comes into sight. 
A great earthen wall has been erected across the valley. The river has flooded up to
nearly the height of most of it, but remains a few feet short of the top. Workers look to
be planting strange clumpy crops in the shallows on the far side near the dam. Closer to
you, there is a 15' wide cut in the lake bank that allows the water to rush down the
former road into the valley below. Your way forward looks to be blocked!_

This is a skill challenge to get down to the valley to find out what is going on. The
players must either cross the stream and hike down the back of the dam or ride the waters
down in some sort of flume ride. The skill challenge shall consist of three rounds of
skill checks. The players attempt to solve the challenges with appropriate skills in a
round robin fashion. If the players succeed in two out of three tests in the challenge 
stage, they advance. 

Each time the players collectively fail a step from this challenge, 1d3 of their fellow
slaves are lost to the challenge stage. If the party runs out of slave compatriots, a
party member chosen at random takes 1d10 bludgeoning damage for each slave that would 
have been lost.

**Flume challenge**  
1. The \<flume vehicle\> you've chosen is unstable in the rushing water.
What will you do to stablize your craft so you can make it down the rushing slope?

2. A great bird of prey has spotted you clinging to the \<flume vehicle\> and thinks your
team to be a tasty meal. What will you do to fend it off and keep everyone afloat?

3. A waterfall approaches which dumps the flood into the former channel of the Rodoehtian
river. A camp full of tents looks to be on the right near the dam. On the left is a small
forest of Allufurt. Some workers can be seen within.


**Hiking Challenge**  
1. You have chosen to cross the rushing river. How exactly are you
going to do that?

2. As you hike along the dam shoulder between the rushing flume and the lake, a great bird
of prey has spotted you stranded on the narrow spit of land and thinks your team to be a
tasty meal. What will you do to fend it off and keep everyone alive?

3. The earth on the back side of the dam is poorly packed and treacherous. In addition,
there looks to be a camp of some kind down there with tents. Will you be seen? How will
you traverse this dangerous terrain?




